modify size cluster documents and performance data (#12461)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/size-your-cluster.md

> - TiFlash is unavailable.

### TiDB node quantity

> The performance of the TiDB node is generally linearly scalable, but there is some performance degradation when there are a larger number of nodes. We estimate this performance degradation by increasing the performance degradation coefficient by 5% every time the number of nodes reaches 8. 

Author: the performance of TiDB nodes increases linearly ...
should be 
the performance of the TiDB cluster increases linearly ...

> The performance of the TiDB node is generally linearly scalable, but there is some performance degradation when there are a larger number of nodes. We estimate this performance degradation by increasing the performance degradation coefficient by 5% every time the number of nodes reaches 8. 

Reviewer: How about "the TiDB performance increases linearly"?

> For example, when there are 9 TiDB nodes, the overall performance is `9 * (1 - 5%) = 8.55` times the performance of a single TiDB node. And when there are 16 TiDB nodes, the overall performance is `16 * (1 - 10%) = 14.4` times the performance of a single TiDB node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:

- When there are 9 TiDB nodes, the performance deviation coefficient is about 5%, so the TiDB performance is about `9 * (1 - 5%) = 8.55` times the performance of a single TiDB node. 
- When there are 16 TiDB nodes, the performance deviation coefficient is about 10%, so the overall performance is `16 * (1 - 10%) = 14.4` times the performance of a single TiDB node.
```

> Different workloads involve queries with varying read-write ratios and have different performance in the specified latency for a TiDB node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a specified latency of a TiDB node, the TiDB performance varies depending on the different read-write ratios.
```

> The performance of the 8 vCPU, 16 GiB TiDB node in different workloads:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The performance of an 8 vCPU, 16 GiB TiDB node in different workloads is as follows:
```

>     | workload | TiDB performance (QPS) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | Workload | TiDB performance (QPS)  |
```

    |----------|------------------------|
    | Read     | 18,900                 |
    | Mixed    | 15,500                 |
    | Write    | 18,000                 |

> We estimate the number of TiDB nodes based on the workload type, overall expected performance (QPS), and the performance of a single TiDB node under different workloads:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can estimate the number of TiDB nodes according to your workload type, your overall expected performance (QPS), and the performance of a single TiDB node corresponding to the workload type as follows:
```

>  `node num = ceil( overall expected perfromance / performance per node * (1 - performance degradation coefficient) )`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 `node num = ceil(overall expected performance ÷ performance per node * (1 - performance deviation coefficient))`
```

> In the absence of performance degradation, the performance of 16 vCPU, 32 GiB TiDB nodes is roughly twice that of 8 vCPU, 16 GiB TiDB nodes. If the number of nodes is too large, it is recommended to choose 16 vCPU, 32 GiB TiDB nodes as this will require fewer nodes and have a smaller performance degradation coefficient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the number of TiDB nodes is less than 8, the performance deviation coefficient is nearly 0%, so the performance of 16 vCPU, 32 GiB TiDB nodes is roughly twice that of 8 vCPU, 16 GiB TiDB nodes. If the number of TiDB nodes exceeds 8, it is recommended to choose 16 vCPU, 32 GiB TiDB nodes as this will require fewer nodes, which means smaller performance deviation coefficient.
```

> Suppose the overall expected performance is 100,000 QPS under mixed workload, then the number of TiDB nodes can be calculated as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose the overall expected performance is 100,000 QPS under a mixed workload, then the number of TiDB nodes can be calculated as follows:
```

For high availability, it is recommended that you configure at least two TiDB nodes for each TiDB Cloud cluster.

> In general, the TiDB performance increases linearly with the number of TiDB nodes. However, when the number of TiDB nodes exceeds 8, the performance increment becomes slightly less than linearly proportional. For each additional 8 nodes, the performance deviation coefficient is about 5%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, TiDB performance increases linearly with the number of TiDB nodes. However, when the number of TiDB nodes exceeds 8, the performance increment becomes slightly less than linearly proportional. For each additional 8 nodes, the performance deviation coefficient is about 5%.
```

For example:

- When there are 9 TiDB nodes, the performance deviation coefficient is about 5%, so the TiDB performance is about `9 * (1 - 5%) = 8.55` times the performance of a single TiDB node.
- When there are 16 TiDB nodes, the performance deviation coefficient is about 10%, so the TiDB performance is `16 * (1 - 10%) = 14.4` times the performance of a single TiDB node.

For a specified latency of a TiDB node, the TiDB performance varies depending on the different read-write ratios.

The performance of an 8 vCPU, 16 GiB TiDB node in different workloads is as follows:

> | Workload | QPS (P95 < 105ms) | QPS (P99 < 300ms) | QPS (P99 < 105ms) |

Author: ```suggestion
| Workload | QPS (P95 ≈ 100ms) | QPS (P99 ≈ 300ms) | QPS (P99 ≈ 100ms) |
```

|----------|------------------------|
| Read     | 18,900                 |
| Mixed    | 15,500                 |
| Write    | 18,000                 |

If the number of TiDB nodes is less than 8, the performance deviation coefficient is nearly 0%, so the TiDB performance of 16 vCPU, 32 GiB TiDB nodes is roughly twice that of 8 vCPU, 16 GiB TiDB nodes. If the number of TiDB nodes exceeds 8, it is recommended to choose 16 vCPU, 32 GiB TiDB nodes as this will require fewer nodes, which means smaller performance deviation coefficient.

When planning your cluster size, you can estimate the number of TiDB nodes according to your workload type, your overall expected performance (QPS), and the performance of a single TiDB node corresponding to the workload type using the following formula:

 `node num = ceil(overall expected performance ÷ performance per node * (1 - performance deviation coefficient))`

> In the formula, you need to calculate `node num = ceil(overall expected performance ÷ performance per node` first to get a rough node number, and then use the corresponding performance deviation coefficient to get the final result of the node number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the formula, you need to calculate `node num = ceil(overall expected performance ÷ performance per node)` first to get a rough node number, and then use the corresponding performance deviation coefficient to get the final result of the node number.
```

> For example, your overall expected performance is 100,000 QPS under a mixed workload, and you want to use 8 vCPU, 16 GiB TiDB nodes. Then you can calculate an estimated number of TiDB nodes as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, your overall expected performance is 100,000 QPS under a mixed workload, and you want to use 8 vCPU, 16 GiB TiDB nodes. Then you can calculate a rough number of TiDB nodes as follows:
```

> For example, your overall expected performance is 110,000 QPS under a mixed workload, and you want to use 8 vCPU, 16 GiB TiDB nodes. Then you can calculate a rough number of TiDB nodes as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, your overall expected performance is 110,000 QPS under a mixed workload, your P95 latency is about 100 ms, and you want to use 8 vCPU, 16 GiB TiDB nodes. Then, you can get the estimated TiDB performance of an 8 vCPU, 16 GiB TiDB node from the preceding table (which is `15,500`), and calculate a rough number of TiDB nodes as follows:
```

`node num = ceil(110,000 ÷ 15,500) = 8`

> As 8 is equal to 8, the performance deviation coefficient is 5%. The TiDB performance is `8 * 15,500 * (1 - 5%) = 117,800 > 110,000`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the performance deviation coefficient of 8 nodes is about 5%, the estimated TiDB performance is `8 * 15,500 * (1 - 5%) = 117,800 `, which can meet your expected performance of 110,000 QPS.
```

> So, you need 8 TiDB nodes (8 vCPU, 16 GiB) to meet your performance requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, 8 TiDB nodes (8 vCPU, 16 GiB) are recommended for you.
```

Although TiKV is mainly used for data storage, the performance of the TiKV node also varies under different workloads. Therefore, we need to estimate the number of TiKV nodes based on both the data volume and performance factors and take the larger of the two estimates as the recommended number of TiKV nodes.

> **Note:**
>
> When you scale your TiDB cluster, nodes in the 3 availability zones are increased or decreased at the same time. For how to scale in or scale out a TiDB cluster based on your needs, see [Scale Your TiDB Cluster](/tidb-cloud/scale-tidb-cluster.md).

**Data volume**

Recommended number of TiKV nodes by data volume: 
`ceil( size of your data * compression ratio * the number of replicas ÷ TiKV storage usage ratio ÷ one TiKV capacity ÷ 3 ) * 3`

Generally, the usage ratio of TiKV storage is not recommended to exceed 80%, the number of replicas is assumed to be 3 by default, the storage capacity of a 8 vCPU, 64 GiB TiKV node is 4096 GiB.

> Supposing the size of your MySQL dump files is 20 TB, the TiDB compression ratio is 40%, the estimate number of TiKV nodes by data volume can be calculated as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose that the size of your MySQL dump files is 20 TB and the TiDB compression ratio is 40%. Then, you can calculate a recommended number of TiKV nodes by data volume as follows:
```

 `node num = ceil( 20 TB * 40% * 3 ÷ 0.8 ÷ 4096 GiB ÷ 3 ) * 3 = 9`

> 

Reviewer: TiDB compression ratio is 40% 这个数字，用户如何得知呢，是自定义的吗

Author: 这是我们内部预估的数值，用户可以根据经验调整，并不是系统的自定义参数。

Reviewer: 是否可以加一个 note 说明下吗？

Author: 我在下面加一下

Although TiKV is mainly used for data storage, the performance of the TiKV node also varies depending on different workloads. Therefore, when planning the number of TiKV nodes, you need to estimate it according to both your [**data volume**](#estimate-tikv-node-quantity-according-to-data-volume) and [performance](#estimate-tikv-node-quantity-according-to-expected-performance), and then take the larger of the two estimates as the recommended node number.

#### Estimate TiKV node quantity according to data volume

You can calculate a recommended number of TiKV nodes according to your data volume as follows:

`node num = ceil(size of your data * compression ratio * the number of replicas ÷ TiKV storage usage ratio ÷ one TiKV capacity ÷ 3) * 3`

Generally, the usage ratio of TiKV storage is not recommended to exceed 80%, the number of replicas in TiDB Cloud is 3 by default, and the maximum storage capacity of an 8 vCPU, 64 GiB TiKV node is 4096 GiB.

> Suppose that the size of your MySQL dump files is 20 TB and the TiDB compression ratio is 40%. Then, you can calculate a recommended number of TiKV nodes by data volume as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
Based on historical data, the average compression ratio is around 40%.

Suppose that the size of your MySQL dump files is 20 TB and the compression ratio is 40%. Then, you can calculate a recommended number of TiKV nodes by data volume as follows:
```

Author: @qiancai please review this

| Workload | TiKV performance (QPS) |
|----------|------------------------|
| Read     | 28,000                 |
| Mixed    | 17,800                 |
| Write    | 14,500                 |

If the number of TiKV nodes is less than 8, the performance deviation coefficient is nearly 0%, so the performance of 16 vCPU, 64 GiB TiKV nodes is roughly twice that of 8 vCPU, 32 GiB TiKV nodes. If the number of TiKV nodes exceeds 8, it is recommended to choose 16 vCPU, 64 GiB TiKV nodes as this will require fewer nodes, which means smaller performance deviation coefficient.

When planning your cluster size, you can estimate the number of TiKV nodes according to your workload type, your overall expected performance (QPS), and the performance of a single TiKV node corresponding to the workload type using the following formula:

`node num = ceil(overall expected performance ÷ performance per node * (1 - performance deviation coefficient))`

In the formula, you need to calculate `node num = ceil(overall expected performance ÷ performance per node` first to get a rough node number, and then use the corresponding performance deviation coefficient to get the final result of the node number.

> For example, your overall expected performance is 100,000 QPS under a mixed workload, and you want to use 8 vCPU, 32 GiB TiKV nodes. Then the number of TiKV nodes can be calculated as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, your overall expected performance is 100,000 QPS under a mixed workload, and you want to use 8 vCPU, 32 GiB TiKV nodes. Then you can calculate a rough number of TiKV nodes as follows:
```

>
> When you scale your TiDB cluster, nodes in the 3 availability zones are increased or decreased at the same time. For how to scale in or scale out a TiDB cluster based on your needs, see [Scale Your TiDB Cluster](/tidb-cloud/scale-tidb-cluster.md).

> Although TiKV is mainly used for data storage, the performance of the TiKV node also varies depending on different workloads. Therefore, when planning the number of TiKV nodes, you need to estimate it according to both your [**data volume**](#estimate-tikv-node-quantity-according-to-data-volume) and [performance](#estimate-tikv-node-quantity-according-to-expected-performance), and then take the larger of the two estimates as the recommended node number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although TiKV is mainly used for data storage, the performance of the TiKV node also varies depending on different workloads. Therefore, when planning the number of TiKV nodes, you need to estimate it according to both your [**data volume**](#estimate-tikv-node-quantity-according-to-data-volume) and [expected performance](#estimate-tikv-node-quantity-according-to-expected-performance), and then take the larger of the two estimates as the recommended node number.
```

#### Estimate TiKV node quantity according to data volume

You can calculate a recommended number of TiKV nodes according to your data volume as follows:

`node num = ceil(size of your data * TiKV compression ratio * the number of replicas ÷ TiKV storage usage ratio ÷ one TiKV capacity ÷ 3) * 3`

> Generally, the usage ratio of TiKV storage is not recommended to exceed 80%, the number of replicas in TiDB Cloud is 3 by default, and the maximum storage capacity of an 8 vCPU, 64 GiB TiKV node is 4096 GiB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Generally, it is recommended to keep the usage ratio of TiKV storage below 80%. The number of replicas in TiDB Cloud is 3 by default. The maximum storage capacity of an 8 vCPU, 64 GiB TiKV node is 4096 GiB.
```

Based on historical data, the average TiKV compression ratio is around 40%.

> Suppose that the size of your MySQL dump files is 20 TB and the TiKV compression ratio is 40%. Then, you can calculate a recommended number of TiKV nodes by data volume as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Suppose that the size of your MySQL dump files is 20 TB and the TiKV compression ratio is 40%. Then, you can calculate a recommended number of TiKV nodes according to your data volume as follows:
```

>  `node num = ceil(20 TB * 40% * 3 ÷ 0.8 ÷ 4096 GiB ÷ 3) * 3 = 9`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`node num = ceil(20 TB * 40% * 3 ÷ 0.8 ÷ 4096 GiB ÷ 3) * 3 = 9`
```

> #### Estimate TiKV node quantity according to expected performance

Reviewer 3: In practice, we found this part sometimes is too optimistic. Sometimes it need quite a few more cores to achieve the task.

Author: I added performance data for different latency according to MEXC test data, for both TiDB and TiKV

> Similarly as TiDB performance, the TiKV performance increases linearly with the number of TiKV nodes. However, when the number of TiKV nodes exceeds 8, the performance increment becomes slightly less than linearly proportional. For each additional 8 nodes, the performance deviation coefficient is about 5%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly as TiDB performance, TiKV performance increases linearly with the number of TiKV nodes. However, when the number of TiKV nodes exceeds 8, the performance increment becomes slightly less than linearly proportional. For each additional 8 nodes, the performance deviation coefficient is about 5%.
```

For example:

- When there are 9 TiKV nodes, the performance deviation coefficient is about 5%, so the TiKV performance is about `9 * (1 - 5%) = 8.55` times the performance of a single TiKV node.
- When there are 18 TiKV nodes, the performance deviation coefficient is about 10%, so the TiKV performance is `18 * (1 - 10%) = 16.2` times the performance of a single TiKV node.

For a specified latency of a TiKV node, the TiKV performance varies depending on the different read-write ratios.

The performance of an 8 vCPU, 32 GiB TiKV node in different workloads is as follows:

> | Workload | QPS (P95 < 105ms) | QPS (P99 < 300ms) | QPS (P99 < 105ms) |

Author: ```suggestion
| Workload | QPS (P95 ≈ 100ms) | QPS (P99 ≈ 300ms) | QPS (P99 ≈ 100ms) |
```

|----------|------------------------|
| Read     | 28,000                 |
| Mixed    | 17,800                 |
| Write    | 14,500                 |

If the number of TiKV nodes is less than 8, the performance deviation coefficient is nearly 0%, so the performance of 16 vCPU, 64 GiB TiKV nodes is roughly twice that of 8 vCPU, 32 GiB TiKV nodes. If the number of TiKV nodes exceeds 8, it is recommended to choose 16 vCPU, 64 GiB TiKV nodes as this will require fewer nodes, which means smaller performance deviation coefficient.

When planning your cluster size, you can estimate the number of TiKV nodes according to your workload type, your overall expected performance (QPS), and the performance of a single TiKV node corresponding to the workload type using the following formula:

`node num = ceil(overall expected performance ÷ performance per node * (1 - performance deviation coefficient))`

> In the formula, you need to calculate `node num = ceil(overall expected performance ÷ performance per node` first to get a rough node number, and then use the corresponding performance deviation coefficient to get the final result of the node number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the formula, you need to calculate `node num = ceil(overall expected performance ÷ performance per node)` first to get a rough node number, and then use the corresponding performance deviation coefficient to get the final result of the node number.
```

> For example, your overall expected performance is 110,000 QPS under a mixed workload, and you want to use 8 vCPU, 32 GiB TiKV nodes. Then you can calculate a rough number of TiKV nodes as follows:

Reviewer: 同上

Author: already modified.

> For example, your overall expected performance is 110,000 QPS under a mixed workload, your P95 latency is about 100 ms, and you want to use 8 vCPU, 32 GiB TiKV nodes. Then, you can get the estimated TiKV performance of an 8 vCPU, 32 GiB TiDB node from the preceding table (which is `17,800`), and calculate a rough number of TiKV nodes as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, your overall expected performance is 110,000 QPS under a mixed workload, your P95 latency is about 100 ms, and you want to use 8 vCPU, 32 GiB TiKV nodes. Then, you can get the estimated TiKV performance of an 8 vCPU, 32 GiB TiKV node from the preceding table (which is `17,800`), and calculate a rough number of TiKV nodes as follows:
```

`node num = ceil(110,000 / 17,800 ) = 7`

> As 7 is less than 8, the performance deviation coefficient is 0. The TiKV performance is `7 * 17,800 * (1 - 0) = 124,600 > 110,000`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As 7 is less than 8, the performance deviation coefficient of 7 nodes is 0. The estimated TiKV performance is `7 * 17,800 * (1 - 0) = 124,600`, which can meet your expected performance of 110,000 QPS.
```

> So, you need 7 TiKV nodes (8 vCPU, 32 GiB) to meet your performance requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, 7 TiKV nodes (8 vCPU, 32 GiB) are recommended for you according to your expected performance. 
```

> Next, you can compare the calculated TiKV node number according to data volume and that according to expected performance, and take the larger one as a recommended number of your TiKV nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you can compare the TiKV node number calculated according to data volume with the number calculated according to your expected performance, and take the larger one as a recommended number of your TiKV nodes.
```
